Ethical Code of Conduct
Department of Computer Science, IIT Kanpur


Welcome to IIT Kanpur, one of the best places for computer science education in the country. But with great opportunity, comes great responsibility, and one of the most important things is being ethical in conduct. 


Importance of ethics
With core focus of the department on research and rigorous in depth study of computer science, this is only possible with an equal zeal, passion and hard work of a student. But this fails when the methodology of learning is unethical, when unfair means are used to get results (or forge them). 
Even more so, learning happens in open environment, which treats everyone equally and is inclusive of people irrespective of their caste, creed, gender, sexual orientations and their motivations for work. Collaboration over ideas happens when all voices, ideas and thoughts are heard equally. 


Ethical guidelines (none of them are binding, but are punishable)
All activities that might be associated with use of illegal materials, their consumption or selling/trading them are strictly prohibited. 
All academic activities should be the sole work of an individual (or a team, as the case may be) and should not copy, reproduce or plagiarise work available on the internet, obtained from seniors or fellow batch mates without proper referencing (refer to Anti cheating policy). 
No such activities should be undertaken that make any person feel discriminated against them on basis of things in or out of their control like caste, creed, gender, sexual orientations and grades, past experiences or any such activities.
Vandalism of department resources and common areas, is strictly looked down upon. 
Hacking of computer labs to get increased access to resources, or misuse of power or access to get unfair advantage over others is strictly prohibited.
Harassment, bullying or undue provocation of any kind if strictly prohibited. All actions that do not respect the privacy, safety and civil rights of people are punishable.
All forms of research must be kept confidential until publishing or reporting, while proper acknowledgements and references must be given while presenting all forms of research and project reports, papers. 


Punishment
All forms of disciplinary action are kept upto the judgement of the Academic Senate, and all courses or projects where academic dishonesty is noticed, an immediate F grade will be awarded.
All forms of hacking, and unlimited or unethical use of resources would lead to termination of access to resources. 
All forms of harassment, discrimination and bullying would be punishable as presented in the Most recent version of the Indian Penal Code.